Data Dictionary
------------
The PDC data dictionary is a centralized metadata repository based on the data model describes the information about the data such as meaning, relationships to other data, origin, usage, and format. Both the data model and the data dictionary will continue to evolve based on the variety of data PDC would ingest from various programs and also the user feedback.
Explore Data Model
Administrative

.. list-table:: Administrative
   :widths: 25 25 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - 
     -
     - 
   * - Case
     - 
     - The collection of all data related to a specific subject in the context of a specific project.
   * - Program
     -
     - A broad framework of goals to be achieved. (`NCIt - C52647 <https://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/pages/concept_details.jsf?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C52647>`_)
   * - Project
     -
     - Any specifically defined piece of work that is undertaken or attempted to meet a single requirement. (`NCIt - C47885 <https://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/pages/concept_details.jsf?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C47885>`_)
   * - Study
     - 
     - A detailed examination, analysis, or critical inspection of a subject designed to discover facts about it. (`NCIt - C63536 <https://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/pages/concept_details.jsf?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C63536>`_)


Case	The collection of all data related to a specific subject in the context of a specific project.
Program	A broad framework of goals to be achieved. (NCIt - C52647)
Project	Any specifically defined piece of work that is undertaken or attempted to meet a single requirement. (NCIt - C47885)
Study	A detailed examination, analysis, or critical inspection of a subject designed to discover facts about it. (NCIt - C63536)


Biological
Gene	A functional unit of heredity which occupies a specific position on a particular chromosome and serves as the template for a product that contributes to a phenotype or a biological function.


Biospecimen
Aliquot	Pertaining to a portion of the whole; any one of two or more samples of something, of the same volume or weight.
Analyte	A liquid bulk product produced according to specified lab protocols, from a sample or analyte, intended for further analysis.
Portion	A physical sub-part of any sample.
Sample	Any material sample taken from a biological entity for testing, diagnostic, propagation, treatment or research purposes, including a sample obtained from a living organism or taken from the biological object after halting of all its life functions. Biospecimen can contain one or more components including but not limited to cellular molecules, cells, tissues, organs, body fluids, embryos, and body excretory products.


Clinical
Demographic	Data for the characterization of the patient by means of segmenting the population (e.g., characterization by age, sex, or race).
Diagnosis	Data from the investigation, analysis and recognition of the presence and nature of disease, condition, or injury from expressed signs and symptoms; also, the scientific determination of any kind; the concise results of such an investigation.
Family History	Record of a patient's background regarding cancer events of blood relatives.
Follow-Up	A visit by a patient or study participant to a medical professional. A clinical encounter that encompasses planned and unplanned trial interventions, procedures and assessments that may be performed on a subject. A visit has a start and an end, each described with a rule. The process by which information about the health status of an individual is obtained before and after a study has officially closed; an activity that continues something that has already begun or that repeats something that has already been done.
Exposure	Clinically relevant patient information not immediately resulting from genetic predispositions.
Treatment	Record of the administration and intention of therapeutic agents provided to a patient to alter the course of a pathologic process.


Data File
File	Data files submitted by a user or generated by data analysis pipeline.


Metadata
Aliquot Run Metadata	Experimental metadata describing how an aliquot was processed within a study.
Protocol	The formal plan of an experiment or research activity, including the objective, rationale, design, materials and methods for the conduct of the study; intervention description, and method of data analysis. (NCIt - C70817)
Study Run Metadata	General experimental metadata describing study design.
Workflow Metadata	Tools, versions and parameters used in data analysis pipeline/workflow for analyzing study data.


Processed
Publication	Published scientific research article describing a study.
Gene Abundance	Derived results intended to approximate protein abundance for a given gene product. Units of measurement include peptide-spectrum-matches (spectral counts), precursor or reporter ion abundance.

